Chapter No 3: Analysis and design 
3.1Requirements 
A requirement is a thing that must be accomplished by the system. It is a goal or state that the 
software must fulfill in order to be counted as successful.When designing a software system, 
designers will normally formulate requirements in functional terms, which means they will state 
what the system should do, but not how it should be done. The designers will take care of the 
details. Sometimes, designers will formulate these requirements in too much detail or just plain 
unrealistically, without considering the practicalities. There are two types of requirements given 
below: 
3.2 Functional Requirements 
Functional requirement: This describes what the system has to do. They define the services, 
behaviors, and functions that a system must provide to its users. The requirements are focused 
on systems, action, inputs, processing, and output, and do not describe how the system is 
technically implemented. 
In many situations, when user requirements are written for the requester rather than the end 
user, functional requirements are often merged with non-functional requirements. This practice 
is common in organizations that have a strong Information Technology department responsible 
for developing and implementing the system. The functional requirement of Learnity is the 
following: 
● User Authentication: Registration and login system with different access levels for 
Students, Teachers, and Administrators. 
● Multimedia Content Management: Functionality for teachers to upload, organize 
recorded video lectures and PDF study materials. 
● Sindh Board Filtering: Search and filter engine for users to browse content specifically by 
Grade (1-12) and Subject 
● Dual Learning Modes: Support for both asynchronous (recorded) video watching and 
synchronous (live) classroom interactions. 
● Monetization & Local Payments: System to manage "Free" and "Paid" content options 
with JazzCash and Easypaisa verification 
● Evaluation Tools: Automated quiz modules and digital portal for assignment submission 
and teacher feedback. 
3.1.2Non-Functional Requirement 
In software engineering, non-functional requirements focus on ensuring overall system quality 
rather than specific functionalities. Software systems are expected to demonstrate key quality 
attributes such as accuracy, performance, security, and ease of modification. Despite their 
importance, non-functional requirements are often challenging to define and implement in many 
projects, even though effective methods exist for addressing functional requirements that deliver 
the intended system behavior. 
Non-functional requirements are a very useful reference for software practitioners, researchers, 
and students as they cover areas such as system performance, external interface requirements, 
design constraints, and overall software quality attributes. Non-functional requirements are not 
easily testable, and hence they are evaluated by subjective evaluation instead of objective 
measurement 
The website Learnity has the following non-functional requirements 
3.2 Desgin of Learnity Website 
1.1.1 USE CASE FOR TEACHERS 
To use the website the teacher have to first register themselves on the website, if he/sehe 
is not registered on the website.Then the teacher can upload video lectures, notes and 
overall study material, they can also conduct the live classes for their students. After 
sometime teacher can turn on the monetization on their account and get subscription from 
their students 
1.1.2 USE CASE FOR STUDENT 
The student use case explains how students can use the platform to access learning content. 
The student creates an account and logs into the system, searches for available teachers, and 
subscribes to a teacher’s account to get access to learning content. Once the student 
subscribes to the teacher’s account, the student can participate in live video lectures, view video 
lectures that the teacher has already uploaded, and view or download study materials that the 
teacher has provided. The student use case highlights how the platform allows students to learn 
remotely and access both live and pre-recorded learning content. 
1.1.3 USE CASE FOR ADMIN 
The use case for the administrator explains the function of overseeing and managing all 
activities that take place on the website. The administrator has complete control over the system 
and is responsible for managing student and teacher accounts, including the ability to upload, 
delete, and manage content and user activities. The administrator is also responsible for 
monitoring all materials that have been uploaded by teachers and ensuring that they comply 
with community guidelines; if there is any material that does not comply with these guidelines, 
the administrator has the right to limit, control, or delete it. The administrator is also responsible 
for the maintenance of the website to ensure that everything runs smoothly and that the website 
provides a safe environment for all users. 
1.1.4 ACTIVITY DIAGRAM FOR TEACHER 
The process starts with the teacher logging into the system. After that, the teacher uploads 
videos and learning materials and can also have live classes for the students. After all these are 
done, the teacher logs out of the system, which is the end of the process. As shown in the 
activity figure 
1.1.5 ACTIVITY DIAGRAM FOR STUDENTS 
Activity diagram for the student shows taht the student  logs into the system using valid 
credentials. After logging into the system, the student browses through the list of available 
teachers and subscribes to the account of a teacher of their choice. After the student has 
subscribed to the teacher’s account, they are able to participate in live video lectures, 
pre-recorded video lectures, and view notes and study materials uploaded by the teacher. After 
the student is done with the learning process, they log out of the system, thus concluding the 
process. 
1.1.6 ACTIVITY DIAGRAM FOR ADMIN 
After logging in to the website, the admin can perform activities like managing the teacher and 
student accounts. He reviews the content uploaded by  teachers and controls all the activity and 
settings in the website as shown in the figure 
1.1.7 ENTITY RELATIONSHIP DIAGRAM 
Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) is a graphical tool that is used in database design to 
represent entities in a system and the relationships between them. Entities are real-world 
objects like users, courses, or payments, while attributes are descriptions of the 
characteristics of each entity. Relationships are used to describe how entities are related 
to each other, for example, one-to-one, one-to-many, or many-to-many. An ERD can assist 
a developer or designer in understanding the structure of a database, organizing data 
effectively, and establishing the correct relationships before creating a database. 
1.1.8 SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE 