PROJECT OVERVIEW********** 
In the era of Science and technology everything is evolving at a rapid pace including the 
department of education e- learning has evolved to website and mobile applications which make 
ease for the students learning where schools and colleges are limited and quality of education is 
not good. International platforms like coursea and khan academy covers an audience of 
international students. That said, there are no dedicated platform for the students of Pakistan, 
especially in the province of Sindh. There are youtube, and whatsapp groups but those are 
inconsistent and don't cover a huge part of the courses taught in school. There is a need for an 
online learning platform which is engineered to cater the education of the Sindh Board 
curriculum.This platform facilitates both the teachers providing their expertise and the student 
using the platform to avail those expertise.Educators can offer students high quality 
syllabus-aligned instruction regardless of their city or rural location. This project solves their 
problem by providing a localized tutoring platform which gives them proper guidelines 
ABSTRACT: 
Students have been facing problems in the online learning space due to the absence of a 
platform that covers the Sindh Board Curriculum. This project, “LEARNITY” solves this problem 
by providing students a platform that is focused on delivering dedicated courses and education 
which are aligned with the curriculum of Sindh which makes learning smart and hassle-free. 
Learnity is designed to facilitate and build a direct connection between the subject specialist and 
student. Once a student registers on the website, he/she select courses of their own choice and 
start learning. Teachers also register on the website and offer student courses of their specialty, 
teacher are ranked based on their performance and teaching expertise. This project will also 
help with collaborative learning 
The role of the administrator is that he/she will have full access of website and be able to 
access user data, control information between teachers and students, check profiles for errors 
and bugs, and supervise the system to ensure the safety of user data. 
INTRODUCTION 
The educational department in Pakistan, especially in the province of Sindh, there is a need for 
an e-learning platform because most of the students today learn through online courses and 
material available on the internet, which gives them a huge advantage when compared to other 
entities and schools. While international platforms like Khan Academy and Coursera provide 
digital learning, they differ from the local education in Sindh, and are built for an international 
audience; even most of the e-learning platforms in Pakistan are focused on O-level studies and 
higher education. This has resulted in a gap where students of Sindh, from grades 1 to 12, do 
not have a digital platform that meets their board requirements. 
Currently, the current state of affairs, where the lack of consistency in tools such as WhatsApp 
and YouTube has brought to the fore the need for a more organized and role-specific web 
service, has been addressed by this project, which is a localized tutoring website, and aims to 
fill this gap by providing a platform for teachers and students from various cities and rural areas 
of the province to connect. Through the provision of a “side” networked to the Sindh Board 
curriculum, this website enables teachers to utilize their knowledge and students to continue 
their education with complete guidance. 
OBJECTIVES 
The main aim of this study is to develop a localized web-based tutoring system specifically 
designed and developed for the students and teachers of the Sindh province. 
To accomplish the main objective, the following specific objectives have been set: 
To Develop a Centralized Resource Hub: To develop a system that enables students to easily 
access Sindh Board-compatible learning resources, study notes, and academic notifications in 
one centralized location 
.To Facilitate Remote Tutoring: To develop a system that enables a digital space for teachers 
and students from different cities to interact for online learning, thereby overcoming the 
geographical constraints of a conventional school. 
To Streamline Academic Management: To develop a system that enables automated 
management of assignments, course timetables, and student performance, which were 
previously managed manually. 
To Enable Teacher Monetization: To develop a system that enables a secure platform for 
qualified teachers to monetize their knowledge and receive payment for their courses. 
To Improve Learning Flexibility: To develop a system that enables quality education to be 
accessible to students in both urban and rural Sindh through an intuitive web-based interface. 
SCOPE 
The scope of Learnity is to provide an e-learning platform specifically designed for the Sindh 
Board curriculum from Grade 1 to 12, where students and teachers can make accounts to 
interact with syllabus-aligned courses and video lectures. The platform have responsive web 
and Android-based interface. The teachers are empowered to manage their own specialized 
study materials and monetize their courses, while the students are able to access the study 
materials, participate in quizzes, and attend live classes. Additionally, the system is made for 
collaborative learning with chats, comments, and discussion forums that enable effective 
communication between teachers and students regardless of their location. 